---
description: Tandem uses a modified GitHub Flow development model.
---
Development Process and Workflow
================================

Tandem uses a modified [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) development model. You can read more about this process in the aforementioned link but the general flow is:

1.  Choose a ticket or issue from the [ZenHub board](https://github.com/thinktandem/horoscope#boards?repos=88304447) of the project you are working on.
2.  Open a new branch from `master` in the form `ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION` to work on that issue
3.  Add commits to this branch with message form `#ISSUENUMBER: COMMIT DESCRIPTION`
4.  Push the `git push {REMOTE} {ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION}` when work is complete
5.  [Open a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/)

* Before opening a PR
  * Run the tests locally: `lando composer test`
  * Test manually that the functionality described in the task is complete.
  * Run `git diff` on your code and make sure debug, testing and cruft is removed
  from the proposed PR code.
* Assign the PR to be reviewed by your project manager.

1.  Follow any checklists that are auto-generated by the pull request
2.  Wait for any automated tests (Travis-CI/CircleCI), or manual QA (platform envs, code review) to pass.
3.  Merge the code into `master`.
* This is typically done by a technical project lead.
1.  Delete the issue branch `ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION`.
* This is typically done by a technical project lead.

**NEVER EVER EVER EVER PUSH ANYTHING DIRECTLY TO THE MASTER BRANCH!!!**

Some details may vary on a project to project basis. Every project has a its own documentation typically starting with the README.md and project variances in process will be documented there.  For example for projects using Platform.sh as the host in step 2 you would branch from `test` as `test` is the canonical branch for Platform.sh based projects, where Pantheon uses `master` as canonical.
