Development Process and Workflow
--------------------------------

Tandem uses a modified [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) development model. You can read more about this process in the aforementioned link but the general flow is:

1.  Choose a ticket or issue from the [ZenHub board](https://github.com/thinktandem/horoscope#boards?repos=88304447)
of the project you are working on.
2.  Open a new branch from `master` in the form `ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION` to work on that issue
3.  Add commits to this branch with message form `#ISSUENUMBER: COMMIT DESCRIPTION`
4.  Push the `git push {REMOTE} {ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION}` when work is complete
5.  [Open a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/)
  * Before opening a PR
    * Run the tests locally: `lando composer test`
    * Test manually that the functionality described in the task is complete.
    * Run `git diff` on your code and make sure debug, testing and cruft is removed
    from the proposed PR code.
  * Assign the PR to be reviewed by your project manager.
6.  Follow any checklists that are auto-generated by the pull request
7.  Wait for any automated tests (Travis-CI/CircleCI), or manual QA (platform envs, code review) to pass.
8.  Merge the code into `master`.
  * This is typically done by a technical project lead.
9.  Delete the issue branch `ISSUENUMBER-BRIEFDESCRIPTION`.
  * * This is typically done by a technical project lead.

**NEVER EVER EVER EVER PUSH ANYTHING DIRECTLY TO THE MASTER BRANCH!!!**

Some details may vary on a project to project basis. Every project has a its own
documentation typically starting with the README.md and project variances in
process will be documented there.  For example for projects using Platform.sh as
the host in step 2 you would branch from `test` as `test` is the canonical branch
for Platform.sh based projects, where Pantheon uses `master` as canonical.

Tests
-----
For PHP/Composer based projects we usually configure the `composer.json` file
with a `scripts` key to run the test suites.

*   The command `lando composer test` runs:
    *   php linting as configured in `.phplint.yml`
    *   php code style checks against the PSR2 standard
    *   phpunit tests

Setting Up a Project
----

If you are charged with setting up a project we typically want:

* Git repo
* CI: Usually Travis-CI or CircleCI
* Githooks to deploy to test envs (CD)

You can look at examples of setting this up for:
* Pantheon: https://github.com/thinktandem/pantheon-workflow-demo
* Platform: https://github.com/thinktandem/platform-workflow-demo

The `.travis.yml` or `circle.yml` files will give you an idea of things that are
needed to provide the automated tests, QC and CD.
